Muhammad Ali funeral: Rousing farewell at Louisville memorial
Rousing tributes have been paid to boxing legend Muhammad Ali at a memorial service in his home city of Louisville, Kentucky. 
Muslim, Christian, Jewish and other speakers spoke of his fight for civil rights, while a message from President Barack Obama praised his originality. 
The interfaith event took place hours after thousands said farewell as his coffin passed through city streets. 
Ali was buried in a private ceremony attended by friends and family. 
The ex-heavyweight champion and rights activist died last Friday aged 74. 
The service, attended by dignitaries and by several thousand people who acquired free tickets, was held at the KFC Yum! Centre. 
Look back at the life of the ultimate fighter 
Among those attending the service were King Abdullah of Jordan. 
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan attended Thursday's prayer ceremony and had been due at the service, but cut short his visit to the US. The reasons for his departure are not clear, though there are reports of differences with the funeral's organisers. 
The motorcade procession began at about 10:35 local time (14:35 GMT), more than an hour behind schedule, and took the coffin past Ali's childhood home, then the Ali Center, the Center for African American Heritage and then down Muhammad Ali Boulevard. 
Onlookers lining the roadside waved, took photos and chanted "Ali, Ali" as a cortege led by the hearse carrying his coffin drove through the downtown area. 
The man who changed his sport and his country 
'No sportsman has touched more lives' 
Obituary: Muhammad Ali 
Muhammad Ali in his own words 
What made him so great? 
Fans threw flowers at the hearse and rose petals were scattered along the route. 
In one neighbourhood, several young men ran alongside the vehicle carrying a placard which read: "Ali is the greatest, thanks 4 all the memories." 
The cortege then brought the coffin to the Cave Hill cemetery, where Muhammad Ali was buried in a private ceremony. Actor Will Smith and ex-boxer Lennox Lewis were among the pallbearers. 
In 1964, Ali famously converted to Islam, changing his name from Cassius Clay, which he called his "slave name". 
He first joined the Nation of Islam, a controversial black separatist movement, before later converting to mainstream Islam. 
In his boxing career, he fought a total of 61 times as a professional, losing five times and winning 37 bouts by knockout. 
Soon after he retired, rumours began to circulate about the state of his health. 
Parkinson's Syndrome was eventually diagnosed but Ali continued to make public appearances, receiving warm welcomes wherever he travelled. 
He lit the Olympic cauldron at the 1996 Games in Atlanta and carried the Olympic flag at the opening ceremony for the 2012 Games in London. 
He was crowned "Sportsman of the Century" by Sports Illustrated and "Sports Personality of the Century" by the BBC. 
